Prepare your Data
=================

To perform an systematic review, ASReview requires a dataset representing
all records (e.g., abstracts of scientific papers) obtained in a systematic
search. To create such a dataset for a systematic review, typically an `online
library search <https://asreview.nl/the-importance-of-abstracts/>`__ is
performed for all studies related to a particular topic.

It is possible to use your own dataset with unlabeled records, partly
labeled records (where the labeled records are used for training a model),
or fully labeled records (used for the Simulation mode). For testing and
demonstrating ASReview (used for the Exploration mode), the software offers
`Demonstration Datasets`_. Also, a plugin with :doc:`Corona related
publications <../plugins/covid19>` is available.

.. warning::

    If you upload your own data, make sure to remove duplicates and to
    retrieve  as many abstracts as possible (`don't know how?
    <https://asreview.nl/the-importance-of-abstracts/>`_). With clean data you
    benefit most from what :doc:`active learning <../guides/activelearning>`
    has to offer.



Data Format
-----------

To carry out a systematic review with ASReview on your own dataset, your data
file needs to adhere to a certain format. ASReview accepts the following
formats:

 - **RIS file format** `(wikipedia) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RIS_(file_format)>`__.
   Extension ``.ris`` or ``.txt``. RIS file formats are used by digital libraries, like
   IEEE Xplore, Scopus and ScienceDirect. Citation managers Mendeley, RefWorks,
   Zotero, and EndNote support the RIS file format as well.

 - **Tabular datasets**. Extensions ``.csv``, ``.xlsx``, and ``.xls``. CSV files should
   be comma separated and UTF-8 encoded.

For tabular data files, the software accepts a set of predetermined column names:

.. table:: Table with column name definitions
    :widths: 20 60 20

    +-------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
    | Name        | Column names                                                                                            | Mandatory |
    +=============+=========================================================================================================+===========+
    | ID          | record_id                                                                                               | no        |
    +-------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
    | Title       | title, primary_title                                                                                    | yes\*     |
    +-------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
    | Abstract    | abstract, abstract note                                                                                 | yes\*     |
    +-------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
    | Keywords    | keywords                                                                                                | no        |
    +-------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
    | Authors     | authors, author names, first_authors                                                                    | no        |
    +-------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
    | DOI         | doi                                                                                                     | no        |
    +-------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
    | Included    | final_included, label, label_included, included_label, included_final, included, included_flag, include | no        |
    +-------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+
    | debug_label | debug_label                                                                                             | no        |
    +-------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------+

\* Only a title or an abstract is mandatory.

**ID**
If your data contains a column titled ``record_id`` it needs to
consists only of integers, and it should contain no missing data and no
duplicates, otherwise you will receive an error. If there is no ``record_id``
it will be automtically generated by the software. This column can also be
used for the Simulation Mode to select prior knowledge.

**Title, Abstract**
Each record (i.e., entry in the dataset) should hold metadata on a paper.
Mandatory metadata are only ``title`` or ``abstract``. If both title and
abstract are available, the text is combined and used for training the model.

**Keywords, Authors**
If ``keywords`` and/or ``author`` are available it can be used for searching
prior knowledge. Note the information is not shown during the screening phase
and is also not used for training the model, but the information is available
via the API.

**DOI**
If a Digital Object Identifier ( ``DOI``) is available it will be displayed during the
screening phase as a clickable hyperlink to the full text document. Note by
using ASReview you do *not* automatically have access to full-text and if you do
not have access you might want to read this `blog post
<https://asreview.nl/tools-that-work-well-with-asreview-google-scholar-button/>`__.

**Included** A binary variable indicating the existing labeling decisions with
``0`` = irrelevant/excluded, and ``1`` = relevant/included. The use is twofold:

- **Screening**: In ASReview LAB, if labels are available for a part of the
  dataset (see :doc:`partly labeled data <../features/pre_screening>`), the
  labels will be automatically detected and used for prior knowledge. The first
  iteration of the model will then be based on these decisions and used to
  predict relevance scores for the unlabelled part of the data.
- **Simulation**: In the :doc:`ASReview command line interface for simulations<../API/cli/>`,
  the label variable is used to simulate a systematic review run. It is
  advised to use a fully labeled dataset in that case.

.. note::

  Files exported with ASReview LAB contain the column ``included`` and can be used for
  prior knowledge.


**debug_label**
You can explore a existing fully labeled dataset in the Exploraton
Mode. A column called named ``debug_label`` is required, indicating the relevant
and irrelevant records with ones and zeroes. The relevant records will display in
green during screening. This option is useful for training purposes,
presentations, and workshops.


Compatibility
-------------

Citation Managers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following table provides an overview of export files from citation
managers  which are accepted by ASReview.

+-------------------------------+----------+----------+----------+
|                               | **.ris** | **.csv** | **.xlsx**|
+-------------------------------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Endnote**                   | ✅       | N/A      | N/A      |
+-------------------------------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Excel** comma-seperated     | N/A      | ✅       | ✅       |
+-------------------------------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Excel** semicolon-seperated | N/A      | X        | X        |
+-------------------------------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Mendeley**                  | ✅       | N/A      | N/A      |
+-------------------------------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Refworks**                  | ✅       | N/A      | N/A      |
+-------------------------------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Zotero**                    | ✅       | ✅       | N/A      |
+-------------------------------+----------+----------+----------+

-  ✅ = The data can be exported from the citation manager and imported in ASReview. 
-  N/A = This format does not exist.
-  X = not suported.


Search Engines
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When using search engines, it is often possible to store the articles of
interest in a list or folder within the search engine itself. Thereafter, you
can choose from different ways to export the list/folder. When you have the
option to select parts of the citation to be exported, choose the option which
will provide the most information.

The export files of the following search engines have been tested for their
acceptance in ASReview:

+-----------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+
|                 | **.ris** | **.tsv** | **.csv** |  **.xlsx**|
|                 |          |          |          |           |
+-----------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+
|**CINHAL**       | X        | N/A      | X        | N/A       |
|**(EBSCO)**      |          |          |          |           |
+-----------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+
|**Cochrane**     | ✅       | N/A      | ✅       | N/A       |
+-----------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+
| **Embase**      | ✅       | N/A      | ✅       | ✅        |
+-----------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+
|**Eric (Ovid)**  | X        | N/A      | N/A      | X         |
+-----------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+
|**Psychinfo**    | X        | N/A      | N/A      | X         |
|**(Ovid)**       |          |          |          |           |
+-----------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+
| **Pubmed**      | X        | N/A      | X        | N/A       |
+-----------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+
| **Scopus**      | ✅       | N/A      | ✅       | N/A       |
+-----------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+
|**Web of**       | X        | X        | N/A      | N/A       |
|**Science**      |          |          |          |           |
+-----------------+----------+----------+----------+-----------+

-  ✅ = The data can be exported from the citation manager and imported in ASReview. 
-  N/A = This format does not exist.
-  X = not suported.

.. warning::

    If the export of your search engine is not accepted in ASReview, you can
    also try the following: import the search engine file first into one of
    the citation managers mentioned in the previous part, and export it again
    into a format that is accepted by ASReview.

Systematic Review Software
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are several software packages available for systematic reviewing, see
for an `overview <https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.12166>`_. Some of them use machine
learning, while other focus on screening and management. The overview below
shows an overview of alternative software programs and the compatibility with
ASReview. 

+-----------------+-----------+----------+----------+----------+
|                 | **.ris**  | **.tsv** | **.csv** | **.xlsx**|
|                 |           |          |          |          |
+-----------------+-----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Abstrackr**   | ✅        | N/A      | ✅       | N/A      |
+-----------------+-----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Covidence**\* | ✅        | N/A      | ✅       | N/A      |
+-----------------+-----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Distiller**   | X         | N/A      | ✅\**    | ✅\**    |
+-----------------+-----------+----------+----------+----------+
|**EPPI-reviewer**| ✅        | N/A      | N/A      | X        |
+-----------------+-----------+----------+----------+----------+
| **Rayyan**      | ✅        | N/A      | ✅       | N/A      |
+-----------------+-----------+----------+----------+----------+
|**Robotreviewer**| N/A       | N/A      | N/A      | N/A      |
+-----------------+-----------+----------+----------+----------+

-  ✅ = The data can be exported from the citation manager and imported in ASReview. 
-  N/A = This format does not exist.
-  X = not suported.

\* When using Covidence it is possible to export articles in ``.ris`` format for different citation managers,
such as Endnote, Mendeley, Refworks and Zotero. All of these are compatible with ASReview.

\** When exporting from Distiller and if the following error occurs ``Unable to parse string "Yes (include)" at position 0`` 
set the ``sort references by`` to ``Authors``. Then the data can be imported in ASReview.


.. _demonstration-datasets:

Demonstration Datasets
----------------------

The ASReview software contains 3 datasets that can be used to :doc:`explore <../lab/exploration>` the
software and algorithms. The built-in datasets are PRISMA based reviews on
various research topics. Each paper in this systematic review is labeled relevant or
irrelevant. This information can be used to simulate the performance of ASReview.
The datasets are available in the front-end in step 2 and in the simulation mode.

Van de Schoot (PTSD)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A dataset on 5782 papers on posttraumatic stress disorder. Of these papers, 38
were included in the systematic review.

    "We performed a systematic search to identify longitudinal studies that applied LGMM,
    latent growth curve analysis, or hierarchical cluster analysis on symptoms of
    posttraumatic stress assessed after trauma exposure."

**Bayesian PTSD-Trajectory Analysis with Informed Priors Based on a Systematic Literature**
**Search and Expert Elicitation**
Rens van de Schoot, Marit Sijbrandij, Sarah Depaoli, Sonja D. Winter, Miranda Olff
& Nancy E. van Loey
https://doi.org/10.1080/00273171.2017.1412293

Dataset publication: https://osf.io/h5k2q/

Name (for the simulation mode): ``example_ptsd``

Hall (Fault prediction - software)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A dataset on 8911 papers on fault prediction performance in software
engineering.  Of these papers, 104 were included in the systematic review.

The dataset results from

**How to Read Less: Better Machine Assisted Reading Methods for Systematic Literature Reviews.**
Yu, Zhe, Kraft, Nicholas, Menzies, Tim. (2016).  `arXiv:1612.03224v1 <https://www.researchgate.net/publication/311586326_How_to_Read_Less_Better_Machine_Assisted_Reading_Methods_for_Systematic_Literature_Reviews>`_

The original study can be be found here:

**A systematic literature review on fault prediction performance in software engineering**
T. Hall, S. Beecham, D. Bowes, D. Gray, S. Counsell, in IEEE Transactions on Software
Engineering, vol. 38, no. 6, pp. 1276-1304, Nov.-Dec. 2012. https://doi.org/10.1109/TSE.2011.103


Dataset publication https://zenodo.org/record/1162952.

Name (for the simulation mode): ``example_hall``


Cohen (ACE Inhibitors)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A dataset from a project set up to test the performance of automated review
systems such as the ASReview project. The project includes several datasets
from the medical sciences. The dataset implemented in ASReview is the
``ACEInhibitors`` dataset. Of the 2544 entries in the dataset, 41 were
included in the systematic review.

**Reducing Workload in Systematic Review Preparation Using Automated Citation Classification**
A.M. Cohen, MD, MS, W.R. Hersh, MD, K. Peterson, MS, and Po-Yin Yen, MS. https://doi.org/10.1197/jamia.M1929

Name (for the simulation mode): ``example_cohen``

